Hi everyone, welcome to this agentic
pattern [music] series. So if you
building with AI, you probably wonder
how to really design the agentic system.
Sometimes you need a single agent and
other times you need a whole team of
them working together. And today we will
diving into AI agent design patterns.
And each pattern we're going to provide
you with practical example of code. And
we're also going to walk through a live
demo. And by the end of this agendic
pattern series, you will learn how to
build agentic solution from single agent
pattern to different multi- aent
pattern. And for today's episode, we
will focus on practical examples of
single agent, sequential agent, and
parallel agent. For next episode, we're
gonna cover orchestrator pattern, review
and critique pattern with loop agent and
agent as tool. All right, let's dive in.
So let's begin with the most fundamental
pattern, the single agent. Imagine you
want to plan a trip. So with a single
agent, you want to give it instruction
on how to use a tool and we can have a
set of tool like how to check the
weather, check the traffic and schedule.
But for our example today, we will
simplify things with only Google search
tool. So you will write a comprehensive
prompt telling the agent how to plan the
trip using the search tool. So the agent
then relies on the model's reasoning
capability to figure out the sequence of
steps. As you can see from the screen,
the code for this is very
straightforward with ADK agent
development kit. And let's test it with
ADK web UI by typing ADKVAB. So if I
type plan a trip to San Francisco, we
can see in the tracing that agent is
using the search tool to gather all the
necessary information in just one go. We
can see how it is using the tool from
the tracing tab over here. However, this
works for single task. But as you have
more tools, all the tasks are getting
more complex. For example, if I have a
request finding a sushi in San Francisco
that's open late and finding the fattest
way getting there. So if I build this
with single agent, we need to define the
logic in system instruction with this
massive prom and the behavior can become
very unreliable. Since AI is
nondeterministic, you cannot always
guarantee that you will follow your
multistep logic perfectly every time. So
the single agent lack of control if is
its main weakness with single agent
pattern. The benefit is it is very
simple to implement and is great for
straightforward multi-step tasks.
However, it is less reliable for complex
workflow and is harder to control and
can fill as tasks becoming more complex.
Now, let's get to our second part of
this video which is the sequential
agent. So, with the task we covered
earlier, how do we adding more control?
This bring us to our first motion
pattern. the sequential agent and this
pattern is for highly structured
repeatable task because the order of the
operation is fixed. So the output of one
sub aent become the direct input for the
next sub aent. It's like an assembly
line and for our trip we can break down
to two specialized agent. So we have
this first a foot finding agent and the
second a transportation agent. This
sequential agent ensures that we always
run this food finding agent first and
then this transportation agent next. So
this gives us predictable reliable
execution. And you can take a look at
the screen for this code example of how
to write it in sequential agent.
All right, let's try it out in ADK web
UI.
And you can look at the tracing tab. You
can see that it's executed the food
agent first and then the transportation
agent next. Perfect. Uh so how do they
communicate with each other? So they
share information through this shared
session state which act like a shared
scratch pad. You can check the session
state value at this tab. And once the
first agent writes its finding and then
the second agent reads it from it by
using this curly braces in its system
prompt. So this is a form of short-term
memory for your agent system. And the
advantages of sequential agent is that
it has high degree of control and
reliability. It is more predictable than
a single agent, but it can be very
inflexible. This rigid predefined
structure can adapt to dynamic
situations. Now let's go to the third
part of this video, the parallel agent.
So what if some tasks don't need to be
happen in order? Let's say if I want to
plan a full trip need to find a good
museum, find a good concert and then a
good restaurant. If I doing them in
sequential order, it will be slow. This
is where the parallel agent pattern
really shines. It allows multiple
specialized agent to run independently
at the same time. We can have three
agent museum finder, concert finder,
restaurant finder, all searching
concurrently. As you can see, this will
be a lot faster compared to doing them
in sequential order. Of course, after
they all find something, we need to
bring this results together. So, a
common approach is combine this with a
sequential agent. So first we will run
the search in parallel and then second
we will run a final aggregator agent to
synthesize all the results in a single
trip plan. And here's the agent code on
how to put together them.
All right, let's test ADK web UI. After
we type the question from this tracing
tab, we can see three searching agents
kick off all at the same time. So once
they're done, the results are returned
to the session state as you can see from
this tab and then the final summarizing
agent reset state and generate our plan
and this logic is defined in the system
prompt over here. As you can see this is
a great way to reduce latency for task
that can be broken down into independent
subtask. So the benefit of this design
is very obvious that it significantly
reduce latency by running tasks at the
same time. However, it can have higher
initial cost because it is running
multiple agents all at once and in a lot
of use case it requires gather or
synthesize step to combine the result
which can add complexity to our design.
All right, let's recap what we covered
so far. So we covered the single agent.
It is simple to implement. It can be
very flexible but it lacks certain
control over this whole system. We also
cover the sequential agent. It add a
certain level of control and make the
system more reliable but it is not very
flexible. And lastly we covered the
parallel agent. It is fast, efficient
and great for independent task but it
can add cost and complexity to your
system. With those pattern you can
already build some powerful workflow.
And in our next video we're going to
level up with more advanced pattern for
handling even more complex and dynamic
problem. We will explore cases with
different practical examples and the
pattern we're going to cover next
episode including uh the loop and
critique pattern for selfcorrection, the
coordinator pattern for dynamic routing
[music] and also the powerful concept of
using agent as a tool. All right, I will
see you in [music] next video. Bye.
>> [music]